I am currently in the middle of printing
out the rest
of the gear
train which
works whatever it works it only has two
gears on it right now but I'm printing
the rest of them that's cool but now I
want to build
a planetary gear system so I'm reading
about planetary gears
and uh of course we're using this
um I close this awesome series on
Gears and so I'm just going to follow
this so yeah so we're going to start
with the blank
document hi everyone in today's video I
would like to show you how to make a
planetary gear set which will allow you
to transmit high amounts of torque at a
relatively High ratio in a very compact
package I would like to start today by
sh how to model the red ring gear I'll
do it once first to show you the basic
idea of how to do it but it will lead to
a few inaccuracies so I will do it a
second time to show you how to correct
for those starting from an empty file
the first thing I'm going to do is
create a gear with the same parameters
that I want for my eventual ring gear so
metric with a 20° pressure angle I'll
take a module of 2 mm with 56 teeth I'll
leave the back lash at zero to show you
the inaccuracies later on um a root
Filip radius also of zero for now I'll
make it 20 mm thick and I don't want a
hole so there we have a gear and now
I'll activate this new component and
create a sketch on this top surface here
and then I'll hit C for Circle and let's
just make this 126 mm in diameter finish
the sketch e for extrude and I'll select
both of these
profiles and then I'll drag these down
by minus 20 mm and I'm going for
Operation new body click okay and once
that's done Computing modify combine a
cut the target is the large cylinder the
tool is the gear and then you can click
okay and then under the Spirit Gear
component will have one body left and
that's our ring gear I want to show you
how this ring gear interacts with a
regular gear and for that I first want
to create a supporting bracket so I'll
activate the root component and create a
new component that I will call bracket
and then I will create a sketch on this
bottom plane here make a circle of let's
say 100 mm and then I'll make another
Circle that is 19 and 12 mm and I will
ensure that that thing is vertically
above the origin and that it is 36 mm
above the origin then finish the sketch
and then I'll extrude the main bit 3 mm
upward and then I'll unhide the sketch
and extrude this bit 20 mm upwards we
can now set up our first joint so I'm
going to hide the sketch we no longer
need it and activate the root component
okay so let's start from
there shift s spur gear what did he say
we are going to need those
parameters s
246 and let's go to here for now
22 56
six no backlash what do you put for the
root fo radius zero
interesting
um 20 and then
zero okay so now we have this then we
want to draw a sketch on here Circle and
then what do you say
126 okay then he wanted to extrude both
the
pleas what's going on hello
okay down
20 and it's new
body
okay oh wait I didn't activate the spur
gear that that could be the problem
too so wait let's undo
that undo this we're going to activate
this then we're going to sketch on here
right here
yeah okay so we're going to do this 126
popop oh wait okay we can extrude this
down minus 20 and it's not a cut it's a
new body and that's okay that's fast
then we want to do a uh combine oops I
hate that it does
that okay then we want to the Target
body
is this and the tool body is that
no it's the other way
around this whole thing is the target
body and this is the tool body and it's
a
cut so now we should only have one body
okay
perfect and then I'll hit large
cylinder I want to show you how this
ring gear interacts with a regular gear
and for that I first want to create okay
so let's make
that plate so what does he do Hees say
new
component and what did he call it a
supporting bracket bracket so I'll
activate the root component and create a
new component that I will call bracket
okay and then I will create a sketch on
this bottom plane here and make a circle
of let's say 100 mm and okay so new
sketch down here hello some reason it's
slow today 100 and then we're gonna
extrude it by three or so I'll make
another Circle that is 19 and a half
millimeters and I will ensure that that
thing is vertically above the origin and
that it is 36 mm above the
origin then finish the sketch and then
I'll extrude the main bit 3 mm
upward and then I'll did I do that right
that's wait hold
on a what
happened let's start
over oh that's what happened okay so
wait oh
wait how did that
happen oh wait hold
on something is bugged out here I can't
select
this
fine
okay
.5 up up
I'm getting fast
though let should did three right and
extrude this bit 20 mm
upwards we can now set up our first
joint so I'm going to hide the sketch we
no longer need it and activate the root
component go back bastard unight 3 mm up
upward and then I'll unhide the sketch
and extrude this bit 20 mm upwards okay
we can now set up our first joint so I'm
going to hide the sketch we no longer
need it and activate the root component
and I'm going to right click the bracket
and select ground so that it can no
longer move and then I'm going to create
a joint I'm going to the underside here
and I want to join this ring gear so I
hold I think I need to unground this
one okay but if I try to move this guy I
can't okay
control so I can select the center of
the ring gear and I'm going to join it
to the center of the bracket let me
watch him do that I'm so bad with joints
and then I'm going to create a joint I'm
going to the underside here and I want
to join this ring gear so I hold control
so I can select the center of the ring
gear and I'm going to what the flip
bro to join it to the center of the
bracket so it's and I'm going to join it
to the center of the
bracket I don't think I did it
right okay hide this bracket
joint this
thing okay there we go
and then what you have to make it
revolute
right good so it's the good revolute
joint right now so I'm going to flip it
up and then I'm going to press animate
to double check that it's good and that
looks pretty good the next thing I'm
going to do is create the pinion gear
that is supposed to mesh with this thing
so I'm going to create a SP gear and I'm
going to create it with 20 teeth and I'm
going to give this one a whole whole
diameter of 20
mm and then I'm going to create a second
joint which is a revolute joint between
this pinion here and this little shaft
nub over there I'm going to flip this
and just animate it again to be
safe that looks pretty good so now our
joints are set up and now we need to set
up a motion link before I do that I
would first like to give some names to
my joints how how do I hide this so if I
look under joints here here and I click
this one I see that it is this joint in
the center okay okay
okay baa black sheet bro okay so it's
fitting but it's fitting way too tightly
obviously but he goes into
that
okay yeah there is a
overlap so how do I click play again
before I do animate shaft nub over there
I'm going to flip this and just animate
it again to be safe that looks pretty
good wait how did he click play what oh
preview motion it's not called animate
anymore okay so then we need to
do motion link between
oh and then
okay so this needs to be what 56 over 20
*
180 that's
360 oh
yeah look at that baby
oh look at that
baby oh so satisfying I love when you
get the motion links right there it does
make everything nice that looks pretty
good so now our joints are set up and
now we need to set up a motion link
before I do that I would first like to
give some names to my joints so if I
look under joints here and I click this
one I see that it is this joint in the
center so I will call that ring gear and
then the other one is the revolution of
the
pinion and I do this because the order
in which I click these joints matters oh
really so assemble we go to motion link
and I want to link the rotation of the
ring gear to the pinion could you just
and then I want to ask myself if I
rotate the ring gear um
360° how much does the pinion
rotate Well the ring gear had 50 right
you basically you think about which one
has the bigger diameter and of course
the pinion would have to turn faster
than the ring gear cuz it has fewer
teeth so if I just take that gear ratio
and multiply it by the same 360° we
should get the right ratio and if I
reverse this now you see that it need
matches up dude on is motion set up we
can take a closer look at how well these
M there will be a little bit of
interference here and I want to make
that more obvious by creating an offset
Plane off the top of this ring gear just
drag this down a little bit and then do
a section analysis on that new
plane okay
construct I'm going to do
a yeah okay then we select this for
inspect section and
analysis
okay we didn't even really need that but
whatever
I don't know if I don't know what I just
did but there's definitely an
interference and then I'm going to hide
the plane and then these colored
hatchings will better show the
interference so if I now zoom in we see
first of all that the fifth gear is
extremely tight and this is because we
selected zero backlash on both of the
gears but if I rotate this orange gear a
little bit now we see over here that
these two lines are sticking into each
other so here we can see them intersect
and and this is a little bit of
interference now between the pinion and
the ring gear the second issue if I
rotate them back a little bit is that
the outer diameter of this pinion here
sticks all the way into the inner
diameter of the ring gear and if I
rotate them one to over then we see
exactly the same problem with the tooth
of the ring gear going all the way into
the trough of the pinion now if we look
at the mesing of a regular set of Spur
Gears we see that that's not supposed to
happen so there is a little bit of
clearance here between the tooth tip and
the trough of the mating gear the
problem here is that if we look at the
pitch diameter or the pitch circle of
this left gear we see that it has a
radius of 30 mm and the outer diameter
has a radius of 32 mm so between this
circle here and the outer diameter we
have a total distance of 2 mm but this
inner diameter over here is almost 2 and
1 12 mm smaller than this 30 mm Circle
so here we have the addendum of 2 mm
which we've discussed in video4 compared
to a d Dum of nearly 2 and2 mm but what
happened is we did that combined cut to
make the ring gear we flipped around the
addendum for the dedendum which causes
this fit over here so let's start over
from scratch let's model a new ring gear
uh but this time we will add some
backlash and we will also fix up the
inner and outer diameters to ensure that
we don't get this tip to trough
interference okay I've got the gear
generator open again in a new blank file
and I'm going to make the same base gear
as before the difference here is that
I'm going to enter a backlash of minus
0.2 mm so usually if you have the normal
size gear teeth and you add a positive
backlash the gear te teeth become a
little bit narrower but the idea now is
that by entering a negative backlash we
make the gear teeth a little bit wider
and then by doing the combined cut later
on the resulting gear teeth on the ring
gear will be a little bit narrower which
corresponds to the backlash that we want
so let's click okay on this let's now
fix up the add end dendon and for that I
will unpack this group here on the
timeline by pressing this little plus
and then I'll take my history marker and
roll it back by two positions so that it
is before the circular pattern here I'm
going to take the Press pool command and
I'm going to press pull this phase here
and I'll press pullet
outwards roll it back by two positions
so that it is before the circular
pattern here yeah I'm going to take the
Press pull command and I'm going to
press pull this phas here and I'll press
pull it outwards and I want to point out
here that under offset type modify
existing feature and automatic both will
not work it has to be new
offset and how much are we going to
offset it well originally it's one time
the module for the addendum but we want
this now to be the later dedendum so it
has to be 1.25 times the module
wait okay
so just make this bad Planet here okay
should s
yes uh 2 56
Min
-.2 0 20 0 enter okay then you go
here you roll it back to
this just roll it back
there and what is he
saying so wait hold on let me just do
this thing again so I can look at that
picture
there a ratio of the diameter to the
number of teeth
so wait so why is it that we need
to let's see does he explain why it has
to be new
offset and how much are we going to
offset it well originally it's one time
the module for the addendum but we want
this now to be the later dendam so it
has to be 1.25 times the module and the
difference there is then 1 0.25 times
the module 0 25 * 2 okay that sort of
makes sense actually I mean not exactly
I don't know where he got 1.25 from but
regardless oh it's not extrude it's a
pole press pole so
here what's the difference between press
pull and offset face it sounds like the
same thing going
be 0.25 time 2
and then hit enter wait his looks
different than mine and then we can roll
the history marker why does mine look so
goofy and then we Goofy ah Goofy ah
bro goofy a gear tooth bro
[Laughter]
let me do my job you're being so you're
being so disruptive with your disruptive
ah let me do my job
bro like blood honestly all right so
like I you just called me blood he just
called me blood dude yeah with because
you're because you're being like
obnoxious right now your loud
mouth bro you won't shut the up what is
Goofy off for real
his goofy
a okay so what is up with this goofy a
tooth
bro okay wait what if I just undo this
and go to press
P mod
modify oh press pull is literally the
same as offset
face so then
why five time will not work it has to be
command and I'm going to press pull this
phas here dude that's literally what I
did press pull it outwards see how his
is not
like
[__] like that's definitely not right
to point out here that under offset type
modify existing feat feature and
automat oh
wait oh that's so Random okay I
wonder I wonder is there there's no dock
string you can't really like hover over
this and see why it does that okay but
yeah he he was he was right okay so now
we can just roll it forward and we're
good okay I think both will not work it
has to be
new how much going to offset it well
bro you realize I'm the streamer I don't
give a rat's ass he goofy oh my God
blood isit giggling because of how
[__] you sound blood is literally
over here giggling his ass off his
giggly a his giggly
a dude good griefs is so
good it's one time the module for the
addendum but we want this now to be the
later dedendum so it has to 1.25 the
module marker back forward and then we
see that if we look at the gear teeth
only the gear Toth that we offset
ourselves is lengthened the rest is
unchanged so now we go into this
circular p f feature and then under
objects we will also select this offset
face that we just made and then click
okay and this takes a moment to compute
and now we see that all of the gear
teeth have been lengthened and so now
wait what did he do and then click
objects we will also s
right click edit feature
okay and then under object we will also
select dude wait I got to hide this
thing because this is not
working why can't I hide this it's so
annoying
oh wait did he edit this
Extrusion
cancel is
unchanged so now we go into this
circular pattern feature right oh okay
it was just yet
oh oh none of these are okay so then we
need to select this
to click edit
feature and then under object we will
also select this offset face that we
just made and then click okay and this
takes a moment to compute makes sense
the rown express
bro
e
e e
with his goofy uh his goofy uh bro his
goofy all
right enough fooling around and now we
see that all of the gear teeth have been
lengthened so now we want to fix the D
tendem for that we'll go into the first
sketch of the gear so right click edit
sketch and all we have to do is adjust
this diameter so the diameter that we
want this to have is 112 minus one time
the module that is the addend that we
want to have later which will be time
one time the module yeah okay so then we
just want to go into
here
112 why did he get 112 is that 56 * 2
yeah so 112 -
2 be the D denum now but we want to have
that on this side of the gear but also
on this side of the gear so we'll have
to do this twice
oh yeah
duh damn I've never seen a thing take so
long damn this is such an inefficient
way to make a ring
gear holy hell this is the slowest it's
ever been
okay so it's
done and that'll be8 okay wait so now we
just need to do the thing the final
thing we can do now is activate the
component to make sure that we're
working inside of it and then we'll do
the sketch again
make sure we're in the origin 126 mm
wait did we draw in this face and then
we'll do the sketch
again 120 126 I thought right that was
just kind of arbitrary right it's 14
more than
the outer diameter or something let's
see let's draw this and then I just want
to do an inspect from here to here 4 and
A2
okay so then here we extrude this down
by minus
20 below dude Fusion is running insanely
slow okay then what does he
do let's just watch for a bit 126 mm and
so the other way to proceed from this
point forward is to take only the outer
profile here extrude it downwards by 20
mm and then under operation select a new
body press okay
and then inside of the component you can
remove the original body and that will
leave you with a ring gear I've created
a new bracket now and I'm about to make
the pinion and there are two things I
want to point out okay so let's just
make that important that you don't
forget to turn let's make that uh thing
so uh we need uh we need to go here new
component Brack
bracket B
Drizzy
BB am I going to get
um what's the original is this the
original I just want the
[Music]
beat oh it's just such a catchy
song okay so here what did he make this
he made it a 100 then he made a circle
here and this was
19.5 then he did this this s Hy then he
did this D and then he made this 36 okay
then he finished sketch then he shooted
this by a
three then he went in here and he
enabled the sketch and then he went this
by 20 okay so that's it that's the
bracket B is Bab oh yeah okay so now we
do shift oh wait now we
enable this component shift s oh gosh I
want to just like always have it be spur
gear I it's so so [__] annoying how
bad this [__]
is
bbz BB okay then this needs to be 0 2
instead of minus
point2 and then the whole diameter needs
to be
20 uh and the gear thickness I think he
makes it 15 though into a positive
backlash second I'm going to make this
particular gear 15 mm thick for reasons
that will become clear later on I've set
up the motion links again and now if we
take a look at it from the top we see
that we have need to Joint this guy so
wait we don't have any of joints so let
me just hide this and then uh we're
going to
join this to oh wait let me cancel this
we're going to
um okay we have we have all these points
and then we
want dude what is going on
bro let me close this I don't think it's
that I think it's a stream but holy [__]
it's so slow okay so we're going to do
this then we're going to enable the
bracket and disable this and we're going
to do that let's see did that work if I
click flip does it okay yeah so that's
what we want and then we want revolute
and then can we preview the motion okay
so that's right
then and then we're going to rename this
we're going to rename this to be uh ring
gear and
then the spur gear the spur gear we need
to make a rigid joint to there so it's
enable this we're going to
join that to
that okay and
then oh it is
revolute I guess it is revolute it's not
rigid
so then that's good okay and then we're
going to rename this to be
planet and then we're going to
um do a motion
link between the ring
uh the ring gear and the planet gear and
then this is going to again
be uh 56 over 20 *
360 oh look at how smooth that
looks I don't like that it hops though
can can I move it all the way around
yeah I
can and can I move this one no this
one's the one that's grounded so I can
only move that one clearance all around
the gear teeth and that is still the
case as we rotate the gears around like
this a mechanism like this would be
commonly used in for example a tower
crane to SL that's so satisfying it's
insane it is also used in for example
tanks to Traverse the
turret what I'd like to do now is
convert this mechanism into a planetary
gear set the first thing I'll do is go
into the bracket and then edit the
sketch and I'm going to do a few things
first I'm going to add an extra Circle
here and I will give that a spacing of
let's say 2 mm and I'm also going to
create a similar type of construction in
the center here and I'll make that equal
to the shaft for the planet and that
will be the shaft to carry the Sun Gear
uh the final thing will do I'll finish
the sketch we'll unhide the sketch e for
extrude and just press continue here and
then I press and hold until I can select
the profile and this one is coming up by
20 mm that will be a joint and the other
thing that we'll do is also extrude up
this profile over here this little ring
and we'll also extrude that ring over
there up and we'll extrude those up by
five hold on
and B he B okay so uh so what did he do
I was distracted
I'll finish the sketch to the shaft and
I will okay so he just goes back and
edits that
sketch so he makes a circle around here
and then he makes the distance from here
to here
two then he makes a circle here and it's
at the same a spacing of let's say 2
mm and I'm also going to create a
similar type of construction okay
BBL driz BBL
driz oh [__] I want to do beep beep s
equal and then this and this are
equal okay in the center here and I'll
make that equal that Quick Command pet
is like the most useful thing in
infusion for sure the final thing we'll
do we'll finish the sketch
we unhide the sketch e for extrude can
just press continue here and then I
press and hold until I can select the
profile and this one is coming up by 20
mm that will be a
joint and the other thing that we'll do
is also extrude up right so actually if
I go to here and I hide the um planet or
the uh ring yeah so there's that so
basically what he's saying is
this
profile goes up by 20 oh
[__] wait it's on the bottom face of
this
thing
oh wait so then what is the distance
between this face and this
face it's three
why is the sketch down
there okay wait so then when I go to
hold on when I go
to this extr no this Extrusion can I
just change it to
be
22 okay so that works out and it's still
on top and I can probably still move
this okay so let's go here profile and
we're going to extrude this by 20
wait 23 or
22 I think it's
23 wait hold
on I think I might have gotten this
wrong by
one yeah
l l okay so this needs to be
23 okay so then let's go here profile
extrude
capture 23
and this is a
join
okay nice nice then this profile and
holding
control
uh this profile holding control this
profile we extrude by five but it's not
going to be five because yeah it goes
under it's going to be eight and it's
going to be a join and that gives us a
little bit of a low friction thing okay
a profile over here little ring we'll
also extrude that ring over there up and
we'll extrude those up by 5
mm and we'll make that a join
again and these little Rings now create
a little bit of a shoulder here uh on
which the gears can ride so that the
flat surface of the gear doesn't ride
against the flat surface of the planet
barrier and this at least somewhat
minimizes friction and wear and the
final thing that we'll do now uh is go
into a circular pattern so under create
pattern circular pattern and then we're
going to make a pattern of type features
and I want the shoulders and I want this
you just want one of the shoulders right
and I want to have that patterned
around that uh Center
shaft and then for the quantity I want
to have three planet for now so click
okay on this and now we have I'm so
confused how you did that okay so let's
hide this
gear we're going to do circular pattern
and we're going to
select uh
features we want this then we want this
okay and the axis is going to be
around that and then he wants three of
them so it's weird I feel like there's
duplicate ones in there but that's I
guess that's okay and then does he just
mirror the gears already or he he waits
to do that first he does have to do now
is create the sun
gear tools add
in grips and Zs again SP gear okay now
but and here we're going to need a Sun
Gear of 16 teeth it has to be 16 teeth
in this case so I'd like to go up to the
Whiteboard now to show you why that is
the cas I want to see why here I have
two gears in mesh and one convenient way
to think about gears is to picture them
as cylinders that roll against each
other without slipping and the diameters
of these cylinders then equal the pitch
so the ring gear what is the ring Gear's
pitch diameter that's what I want to
know image will also come in handy when
we talk about bevel gears now when
looking at a planetary gear set this
actually shows quite quickly that the
diameter of of the ring
gear to the diameter of one planet plus
the sun plus another planet wait
actually wait hold on but because the
pitch diameter is equal to the module
time if I just and all these gears have
the same the pitch diameter is equal
to the module times the number of teeth
right
so that means that the pitch diameter is
112 I
think the pitch that
diameter is yes the number of teeth
times the
module so if there was 56 yeah we get
112 is the pitch diameter and then we
need okay and then the pitch diameter of
so let me just draw this
out so PD of ring is equal to 112 then
the pitch diameter of P of the planet
gears is going to be um
40 so then if we have 112 minus 80 or
here I'll say 2 *
40 we get um what is that 32 oh
yeah 32 so then that means that the
pitch diameter of the Sun is equal
to 16 because if the yeah the module is
two then 32 over two okay so we are good
bro I understand the math okay oh and
that's in the right spot sort of we just
need to join
it so let me just hide
this I'm going to join
that we get the right spot there
to
that okay and it is supposed to be rol
I'm going to wait for him to that planet
the Jo is then the sun must be 16 teeth
I now like to change up the joints to
turn this thing into a planetary gear
set the first thing I'll do is take this
bracket and rename it to Planet
carrier and I will unground it and then
I will ground this component over here
and I'll call it the ring gear oh [__]
okay so this is the carrier so wait so
let's cancel this this is now called the
planet carrier and we
ungrounded
oh okay this is going to be called the
ring gear and we are going to okay so
for some
reason that was already
happening now after doing this if we
rotate the planet carrier around okay
wait we see that the joints and the
motion link for the planet is still fine
oh wait can
so what we need to do now is joint up
the Sun and give that the right ratio so
I make a joint for this sun and I'm
going to Joint it to the ring gear
because the ring gear is
stationary um it's different if you
joint it to the planet carrier because
then you're are going to couple a
rotating object to another okay all
right so that was okay so we want to
hide this planet carrier we want to make
a joint of this thing
to Let's hide the
hide of
this
hello okay
sweet wait it's not that it's this okay
but then we need to flip it right
rotating object uh which will complicate
things later on oh then we need to move
it up so I'm going to move this thing up
by 5 mm so that it matches up there and
then I also need to rotate it so that it
measures correctly and this is going to
be 180° ided by 16 16 the number of
teeth and then it lines up like that
wait but I don't have the um so what we
need to do now is create the final
motion oh wait wait no no no it is eight
and nine will be okay so it's supposed
to be eight for motion link and we want
to okay did I miss anything okay then he
rotates it
by
one uh 180 over
16 and this is going to be 180° divided
by 6
okay wait so wait can I go back to this
thing where is my little rotate or does
he just do a move 16 16 the number of
teeth
no oh there is a rotate okay so this is
going to
be 180 over
16 wait but that's not right
oh that's because I needed a that's
because I move this thing
around when did I move it I can't
tell well whatever let's just do the
motion link and it's close enough
and then it lines up like
that um so what we need to do now is
create the final motion link um so
assemble oh [__] motion link oh wait and
we want to link uh this rotation of the
of the planet carrier this now has the
wrong name to this rotation of the
Sun so if the planet carrier advances
one re
solution the ring
gear to this
guy okay let's think about
this so we're joining we're motion
linking the ring gears
rotation so if the ring gear rotates 360
times then that means this needs to
be 56 / 16
and then I think we need to reverse
it is that right it doesn't look right
oh and then there's this weird thing of
like +
one okay so that's right but I don't
understand where that plus one comes
from and that means that the planet
itself has a Advanced by 56 teeth and so
if the planet advances 56 teeth then you
could say that the Sun Gear should
Advance 56 divided by 16 teeth so 16
being the number of teeth of the sun
itself but if we do that though we see
that it doesn't quite work out uh and
the reason for that is the planet is not
only spinning around its own axis it's
also orbiting around the
sun and as it orbits the Sun in that way
it actually creates an additional
rotation of the Sun so it is 56 over 6
sun and uh and the reason for that is
the planet is not only spinning around
its own axis it's also orbiting around
the
Sun and as it orbits the Sun in that way
it actually creates an additional
rotation of the Sun so it is 50 6 over
16 rotations for the spin of the planet
plus one extra rotation to account for
the orbit of the
planet so we now have the beginnings of
a working planetary gear set and okay
all right I'm starting to I starting to
get that but that's still kind of weird
we have the Sun as an input and the
planet carrier as an output we now see
that the gear ratio is the number of
teeth on the ring gear divided by the
number of teeth gear plus one so in this
case it's 56 / 16 which is 3 and2 plus
one so this is a 1 to 4 and a half gear
ratio uh what I now like to do is get
two more planets in there because I want
three planets and so for this you can
simply do a circular pattern and then
the type is going to be components this
component over here and then we'll just
select this axis over here
and one extra thing that I'd like to
show you is that if I go for four
planets in this case you see that all of
the planets immediately line up with the
radi how do I reset the and I'll get
into that a little more later on but
going back to three planets we now see
that the gears don't [__] am I going to
have to do this all over again
can I move this thing
okay
um yeah is there a way to reset the
position of this
oh go to home
position okay so now that it's at the
home
position can I what do I need to do I
need to make the
gear here so I'm I'm going to go here
new component oh oops wait no no yeah
I'm just going to go here okay delete
this
okay
uh that all sounds good okay now I want
to
hide okay we going to rename this again
to Planet
carrier and we we wanted to yeah so we
have for some reason that grounding was
like whatever so now we want to
join this thing oh cancel that we want
to join this thing
to
um this thing what is the SEC what is it
it it should say the oh it does say the
name okay then we just want to flip it
up here and the motion preview the
motion okay that should be
good oh wait but we need the we need the
offset stuff we need to move this around
again so let's reenable this let's make
this move up by
eight and then we need to and if we
enable this make this nice and there
okay so now we are so so freaking Gucci
we just need to
do 180 over 16 and that's perfect okay
so now if I
do this we're good
okay then I just need our motion
link and then just okay I want I want to
actually see what he does there
and6 teeth rotating object
is and then I also need to rotate
divided by 16 16 the number of
teeth and then it lines up oh his
doesn't have a warning on that
oh
interesting okay so wait we want to
undo uh okay but this is already in the
right spot so I don't know what happened
there but we want to do motion link oh
wait does he final motion link and we
want to um so
assemble motion link okay his doesn't
warn him so let's capture position and
then it's going to be the ring gear and
the revolute gear and then this one is
going to
be 56 over 16 +
time and we need to reverse it
okay
nice sweet okay so I'm just going to
save this right now planetary gear gear
box
okay and we want to link uh this
rotation of the of the planet carrier
this now has the wrong name to this
rotation of the
Sun so if the planet carrier advances
one revolution then that means that the
planet itself has advanced by 56 teeth
and so if the planet advances 56 teeth
then you could say that the Sun Gear
should Advance 56 / by 16 teeth so 16
being the number of teeth of the sun
itself but if we do that though we see
that it doesn't quite work out uh and
the reason for that is the planet is not
only spinning around its own axis it's
also orbiting around the
Sun and as it orbits the Sun in that way
it actually creates an additional
rotation of the Sun so it is 56 over 16
rotations for the spin of the planet
plus one extra rotation to account for
the orbit of the
planet so we now have the beginnings of
a working planetary gear set and if we
have the Sun as an input and the planet
carrier as an output we now see that the
gear ratio is the number of teeth on the
ring gear divided by the number of teeth
on The Sun Gear plus one so in this case
it's 56 divided by 16 which is 3 and2
plus 1 so this is a 1 to 4 and A2 gear
ratio uh what i' now like to do is get
to more planets in there because I want
three planets and so for this you can
simply do a circular pattern and then
the type is going to be components get
two more planets in there because I want
three planets and so for this you can
simply do a circular
pattern does you do components and then
the type is going to be
the components this component over here
and then we'll just select this axis
over here and one extra thing that I'd
like to show you is that if I go for
four planets in this case you see that
all of the planets immediately line up
with the ring gear and I'll get into
that a little more later on but going
back to three planets we now see that
the gears don't line up so what we have
to do now is joint these planets to the
rest of the model so this planet to this
shaft flip that back okay
wait why are they red though I don't
like that they're
[Music]
red wait what's going on how did he do
that now
is joint these planets to the rest of
the model so this planet to this
sha oh
interesting all right
[Music]
what okay so now we're like
good flip that back and now it is in the
correct orientation here
and I'll also do that over
here oh so when you click control it
starts to find points on the component
that's like most close to that I guess
okay and then to complete the motion
links the easiest thing to do here uh
because now the other two planets aren't
linked the easiest thing to do is to
just motion
link oh
yeah um not this one I want to link that
one to that one and just one to one and
I also want to motion link this one to
this one also
MH okay
oh wait that looks Spazzy
AF okay wait let's
um okay but that looks
good can't like spin it around all the
way though it's kind of annoying you
have to click multiple
times oh wait what if I move
[Music]
what if I move the ring can I move the
ring no the ring is grounded can I move
this
gear okay there we go that's what I want
to move I want to move the
ring
done so again one to one so now we have
all of our motion link set up so if we
go to for example the
uh Sun Gear rotation so let's call this
Sun Gear
rotation and if I now right click it and
do animate model we can see the entire
gear set moving like this and so the
downside here is that um every 360° the
entire thing resets so that's causing a
little bit of
jumpiness um so one of the things you
can do is instead of that so this is now
actually the joint for the planet
carrier and and if we animate this one
if it rotates a full 360° it comes back
to where it start got to click the right
one so in this case it is nice and
continuous but it is also pretty fast so
pick your poison in a
way and then the final thing we can do
is uh apply some appearances so click a
for appearances and so here we have a
mostly finished model the final thing
I'm going to do to this model is create
some small little cylinders for the
planet carrier and The Sun Gear and also
extrude this up 20 MIM and that just
gives me two little cylinders that I can
use to
uh forgot about that okay so what did
you do I'm going to do to this model is
create some small little cylinders for
the planet carrier and The Sun Gear and
also extrude this up 20 okay
Planet
carrier a sketch on here what create a
sketch on
here make it
18 extrude that by 15
[Music]
okay here we
go 30 that's pretty tall 20
that sounds
good now what is he doing here mm and
that just gives me two little cylinders
that I can use to uh manually manipulate
these gears
yeah n that
I I'll make this
22 I'll make
this okay so then let's make this
um e
okay
so okay so let's
um actually I'm I'm curious if I do
this save as
mesh I'm curious what happens if I just
import that whole thing into bamboo
yeah a single object having multiple
Parts
yeah
M oh wait
wait what does that
do wait what
is oh it doesn't fit there's no way to
arrange
it oh there you go
okay
nice very
nice solid one hour stream where I uh I
did the thing
I did that thing
bro
okay e
for
e
for e
for
e e
okay
oh this is a three-hour print yeah
there's just so much info
eh [__]
it okay so let's
arrange the first test is whether or not
my new screws work and I need to go get
a screwdriver ever a really thin
one we're going to find
out might be able to hand tighten it
actually no probably not
okay hold
on
e for
oh yeah that set screw is on there for
sure wow that works really
well nice
Okay cool so
now
um
for
for for
it's great that you can import the
entire 3mf just export one
thing and just split to
bodies that is really
nice okay so now we need to put this
here
and she doesn't know who I
am and she doesn't give a damn about me
cuz I'm just a teenage dir bag
baby listen to iron made e him baby like
[Music]
you oh
yeah she doesn't know what she's
missing [__]
oh what
happened
oh for
okay so that's spinning and it's on
there let's get the next gear
on so we need one of
these one of these and
beam so
oh yeah she doesn't know what she's
[Music]
missing oh then it's big
gear oh so maybe we need two of these
[Music]
I'm just a
teen like
[Music]
you okay
nice h
compound gears use multiple gears on the
same smaller gear on the
first
for
e e
okay let me get the screws
[Music]
okay so this one it doesn't really
matter where it is
actually let's just try to get it kind
of centered then
yeah these screws are
terrible I need to redesign
them they should be like
um for
okay
okay is that going to be strong enough
though well we'll see I
guess okay so this goes
here and this goes here so this is the
tricky one
one oh
yeah she doesn't know what she's missing
oh wait let me hand do it for a little
bit I can move this over and then just
damn it it's so hard to tighten these I
should just print some more but I
already have a print going
man for
is it on there okay it's on
there so I'm happy with that
okay
come on get in there
bastard nice
this thing is coming along pretty well
man but I'm just a
teenage B baby like you
kind of to carve out a little
for
nice [__]
yeah I only have one left
though
okay well it's a good thing I didn't
print a bunch of these cuz they're not
as good as they could be
okay now I just need to draw a mark on
the side so we have the third rail set
up I don't know if anyone can see
that oh I can use I can use the hex ones
for the end points actually it's not
such a bad idea or can I not really
actually
yeah that's
stupid all right you can prevent it from
shifting too much but not really that
pretty sick
though she doesn't know what she's
[Music]
missing
okay that's the trust that's the thing
you can feel it though it's pretty sick
[Music]
what is blocking
it yeah I think it's just these big ass
he heads
all right so let me get a
video of this
oh wait I want to move
this
okay e
yeah
okay
so uh so
this is pretty
sweet I should probably do one final
redesign
re design of
um this whole this whole thing but just
so I can put it on git and have it like
actually be
right but this I'm like happy with oh
this is not even a save we don't even
need to do
that okay so I'm going to export this
thing and put it on
git is it Source Fusion
models let's do
this and wait actually why don't we just
save all the
library things to get so instead
of
this why don't
we okay well I'll do that after
um oh [__] where did I put
that okay let's cut that go to
sauce Fusion models paste that let's
move honestly we probably delete all
these
right well these are the exports though
so okay we'll do that but then I'm going
to go
to uh pictures
3D the hell was that
okay let's copy all of these guys and
these are just the m three FS but
whatever and then we'll go
to uh Source again let just put this
here then in label past all these
okay so when I build this out I guess
I'm going to end up having just a bunch
of like a single file for M4 a single
file for m whatever
and it'll contain all the components and
then additionally I'll have all the
exports so then can we open this
in open with Visual Studio but open with
code is not here oh there we go
[Music]
cool
for e
all right so that's the end of the
stream
then model the monetary gear printed it
out and then finished the Assembly of
well didn't finish it I need to print
more screws but pretty much finished the
Assembly of the compound gear
train let's do
this you can tell it's a good model by
all that noise if it makes a lot of
noise it's a good design
all right